In this step, you will be modifying the permissions on the `+status.sh+`
script using *symbolic* syntax with the `+chmod+` command. In the
previous step, you were unable to execute *status.sh* as *guest*. To
change that, use the `+chmod+` command. The plus (`+++`) operator will
add any permissions that you specify, but it will not change any
permissions that you do not explicitly set in the command. So in this
case, it will give others read and execute access, but will not change
the value of write access for the group. Return to the root terminal to
execute this command.

Go back to the *Root tab*.

Now change the permission of `+status.sh+`.

[source,bash]
----
chmod o+rx status.sh
----

Verify that this command succeeded using `+ls -l+`, specifying that you
want to only look at *status.sh*.

[source,bash]
----
ls -l status.sh
----

.changed
image::../assets/changedpermissionstatussh.png[changed]

____
_NOTE:_ Just as `+o+rx+` added read and execute permissions for others,
`+chmod+` accepts the `+-+` argument to take away permissions. For
example, `+o-w+` would remove write privileges from others while leaving
the read and execute values untouched. The `+=+` argument can be used to
explicitly set all permissions symbolically.
____

Now the *guest* user will be able to read and execute *status.sh*.
Switch back to the *Guest tab* and re-run the status script:

[source,bash]
----
./status.sh
----

.success
image::../assets/successfullyexecutedasguest.png[success]

Since you added read and execute permissions, you can do more than just
execute this file as *guest*. Use the `+cat+` command to verify that you
can read this file as *guest*.

[source,bash]
----
cat status.sh
----

.cat
image::../assets/catstatussh.png[cat]

Symbolic mode is the more expanded permissions format which can appeal
to newer users. However, the absolute mode described in the next step
can save on keystrokes if you take the time to familiarize yourself with
it.
